General plot notes

# background

# hook

three siblings, two brothers and a sister return home when their father disappeared. what begins as an (ab)normal reunion of an estranged family turns into a race against time as the siblings learn to work together to find out what really happened to their father and what he was working on that seems the reason for his disappearance. along the way they realize that family isn't always what you think, but it's the one thing you can count on.

## a little color

three siblings, two brothers and a sister return to their childhood home upon the news that their father's disappeared. (the mother's death years before had been a final straw for the family which had not been in the same room together since - their father was the type who was never around, a workaholic, and had never forged a relationship with any of his children -- his daughter, the youngest of the three being the only one who had continued to try, albeit from a distance).

amy was the first one called because she's in town and John sr.'s dog was outside the front door barking to be let in for an hour before the neighbors called her.

what begins as an (ab)normal reunion of an estranged family turns into a race against time as the siblings learn to work together to find out what really happened to their father and what he was working on that seems the reason for his disappearance. Along the way they realize that family isn't always what you think, but it's the one thing you can count on.

## characters

**John Sr.** - missing
formerly a chemist at Acme labs, a front company for the CIA. his research focused on nanotechnologies and the possibility to use them to reverse the decay of human cells, even after death. after several years, however, the the project hit a political battle (maybe within Acme or perhaps with the CIA from whence the funds for the project came) and lost its funding. shortly afterwards, his wife died suddenly in a car accident that left her body unrecognizable (she was identified by dental records). He was reassigned to a menial position in a lab working on project of no consequence and his life seemed like it was going no where. he toiled in obscurity for years. eventually, dr. williams, with whom he'd worked at Acme, recruited him to leave Acme to join a new lab (their own) where they could restart the scrapped research - with a twist: in the intervening years nanotechnologies had advanced considerably and the new project would build on that to be able to repair decaying cells - something that was more of a concern now that John Sr. had been diagnosed with cancer. His work was yielding results and it appeared he was nearing a breakthrough shortly before his disappearance. He was getting nervous though because Williams had begun to talk about other applications for the technology, where instead of _repairing_ cells, the nanotechnologies would attack them - making it a targeted agent capable of specifically identifying an individual's dna (i.e. a weapon that could be spread via aerosol but only affect a single person) .

**John** - eldest
forensic accountant. He's the "serious" brother. very business like. he was the golden child and the only one John Sr. spoke of with friends, but after the mother died, even their relationship frayed and John Jr. would ultimately go as far away as he could for college (UCLA) and after a blowout fight one thanksgiving (which is also when he and Patrick stopped talking), never return home. More recently, he's going through a lot of personal problems at home that he's keeping to himself (his wife is leaving him and taking their daughter). His firm, the one he started, is also struggling and he's losing the Kleiner account (his largest and most lucrative client). his life is falling apart, though he hasn't acknowledged that yet, and he's trying to keep everything together - at least from the outside, so far there are few cracks to be seen. he is living on the other side of the country (e.g., LA). John's biggest hope is that he finds a solution to his family woes, namely by finding the money he assumes his father has been stocking away.

**Patrick** - Middle
more of an artist - currently working in marketing for a large agency, his primary client is a large multi-national food company (e.g., General Mills). He had big dreams when he moved to new york, but he's struggled with drugs and alcohol over the years, though he's been sober for the last few. he's been working on a screen play for years, but doesn't seem capable of finishing it. his story is a trail of half-finished projects. of all the siblings, Patrick has the most active imagination, willing to see intrigue behind every corner. patrick's biggest hope is to understand what happened to their dad, because he's convinced that there has to be a story.

**Amy** - youngest
the glue for the family. even though john sr. never gave her the time of day, she was the one who always kept tabs on her brothers and an eye on their dad after mom passed away. even when she moved away for school, ultimately attending WashU St. Louis for Medical school and training in infectious disease. After training, she had the option to go anywhere, but wanted to come home to be near dad who she was getting more and more concerned about. though he didn't welcome her back with open arms, she was near enough to keep tabs on him. meanwhile, she reconnected with her high school boyfriend, Beau, who'd also moved back after school to take over his family's construction business (he doesn't talk much about the business, it's likely not legitimate, and he's refused her offers to introduce him to John Jr. for accounting help.) after her father's disappearance, she was the one who called her brothers when the police declined to investigate suggesting that no crime had been committed. her biggest hope is that her brothers will reconcile (the disintegration of the family post-mom meant the brothers haven't talked directly in years) so that they can be a family again.

**Dr. Williams**

**Beau**

**Mr. Porter**

# Plot points

1. father's disappearance was sudden and caught the children off guard - the brothers fly into town all and descend on their childhood home. Amy's already there looking through the mess that is their father's house. it's the first time they've seen one another in several years. she tells them what she knows - that dad's disappeared, the police won't investigate.
1. John Jr. tries to assume control of the situation so that he will have access to the financials (he's hopeful that the inheritance can buy him some time to save his company). Amy mentions she's contacted Dad's lawyer and he'll be stopping by later (JJ is frustrated by this as he wants to be point on all things related to money). Patrick, meanwhile, is rummaging through all of the papers that dad left.
1. Patrick finds dad's notebooks and shares them with the siblings. JJ isn't interested (saying it's a waste of time and goes back to digging through the bank statements to find the money), but Amy joins him. Together they try to piece together what dad was getting on about. Amy's medical training is their best chance they have to actually understanding what dad was trying to do, though even she is having a hard time with the work.
1. [PAST] some of the papers refer to a lab dad worked in at acme and some work done in the 80s. scene shifts to the lab in the 80s where we see john sr. as a young chemist, working alongside williams. this is before john even knows the mother, but the reader is introduced to a young, eager, and brilliant john sr. john and williams' talk about the emerging field of what Norio Taniguchi called "nanotechnologies" and discuss the lab's new project seeking to build practical applications on top of [feynman](https://www.nano.gov/nanotech-101/what/definition) principles. the program's stated aim was to enable control over individual atoms so that with a simple injection, the host would possess a fail switch by which a remote authority could hook into the body and direct activity. both men decide to volunteer to work on the project.
1. the lawyer arrives and speaks with the children. JJ takes him aside to talk about inheritance. it's awkward as it seems like JJ is only looking for money when it's not at all clear that their father is dead,
1. within dad's papers, patrick finds references to a dr. williams. he assumes he's an old colleague of dad's from Acme, but the dates don't make sense as they're much more recent. it seems like they've continued to work together. patrick attempts to contact williams, who quickly hangs up once patrick identifies himself.
1. patrick and amy track williams down and confront him outside of a coffee shop. williams is clearly terrified and tries to leave - tells them to drop it and stop looking into their father's research. he admits that he worked with their father, but was scared of him and of what he was working on, he told their dad he wanted out. redoubling their effort, they return to their father's research, certain now that they've missed something and that their father was onto something big.
1. [PAST] Scene about the stalling of the research and the shutting down of the project at Acme
1. meanwhile, CIA agents who have been watching Williams notice the call from John's house and the confrontation outside of the coffee shop and pick up Williams (this may all be off screen...)
1. john finds accounts that make no sense for their father - at least not the father he thought he had. john sr. had shell corporations upon shell corporations creating a vast network of interrelated entities - the type of thing john jr. was used to with the Kleiner account - his largest client, the one who was leaving him, and certainly one who was operating outside of the law. he asks patrick or amy if they have any idea why their dad's business would have the accounts without revealing the full extent of the mystery (e.g., businesses in the caymans, etc.). he has to step away when his wife calls from their home in LA. It's a tense conversation and he hides it from his siblings, but they notice he's unnerved when he returns.
1. Beau comes by with some clothes (?) for Amy. talks with everyone for a few minutes before abruptly announcing he's got to get back to the office - one of his projects is behind schedule and he needs to figure out how to fix it.
1. Over pizza at the dining table they grew up with, the siblings reminisce about their childhood, though very few of the memories are happy. the memories of their father are all brief snippets - he played an offstage role in their lives. the realization leads to talking about their mother who played such a different role - always a shoulder, always available. Amy, though she was the youngest, was always the most observant and noted that mother was more active than the brothers seemed to remember. she was often out of the home - whether for pta meetings or volunteering at the food shelter, etc. (their mother was actually in the CIA, and when the project John Sr., was working on stalled and it seemed like they'd never have a solution, the agency decided to extract her from the deep cover assignment through a fake death. she initially resisted the new assignment. after a decade + she'd forged a family and it would mean losing contact with her children (JJ now being 10, Patrick 8, and Amy 6) but ultimately acquiesced and was reassigned back to langley. -- readers do not know this)
1. [PAST] Mom dies, dad's life unravels
1. the next morning, john jr. is looking at more financial documents and notices their his father placed an ad in the local gazette several weeks previous (though he's always been a tribune man). they try to find the back issue online, but can't, so they call the paper to see which ad their dad placed. They find that the ad was a "help wanted ad" looking for a [Broadwood & Sons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Broadwood_%26_Sons) piano tuner. their father didn't play piano and didn't own one. the ad ended with a quote (what quote?). (possibility: while on the phone the ad seller asks them if their father ever found someone for a previous ad he'd placed - which leads to a conversation and discovery of _more_ ads, all ending with quotes.) The siblings decide to place the ad in the paper again.
1. the next morning, their dad's email gets a new message on an online community for piano enthusiasts. there's no chat history with the user, but the other person suggests meeting. patrick, at the keyboard, suggests the cafe - and taking his dad's cap and jacket goes. amy and jj join, sitting at a table across the aisle.
1. the person, mr. porter, from the online portal shows up and sits down at the table with patrick. as soon as Porter realizes it's not john sr. he makes to leave, but john jr. had scooted into the booth to keep him in. amy joining patrick on the other side. they talk. Porter turns out to have done some work for john sr., securing a package John had given him in a place that John wouldn't know the answer to as a type of safeguard. John had said he would contact Porter if it proved safe to do so so that he could retrieve the package. The ad the children placed served as that contact (though it wasn't the agreed upon protocol and he had been suspicious that something was wrong). while speaking with the children, Porter reveals that john sr. had grown nervous about what his work was yielding and suspicious of his partner. that's why he'd hired Porter - as a safeguard. Porter provides the kids with a key to a safety deposit box at First national.
1. [PAST] John sr. has second thoughts on whether or not the research should be finished - the technology, in the wrong hands, could wreak havoc on the world. williams urges him to reconsider, speaking of nobel prizes - getting upset when john resists. eventually john concedes to continue working on the project. (should probably talk about the progress they've made since leaving Acme - also, should be clear at this point that John is the brains)
1. the children go to the bank to open the safety deposit box. inside is a single small box and a lab notebook. the box is locked with a x-digit alphanumeric code (could be fun if it's the mom's name or something? or maybe something more mundane, like 'excelsior', the one phrase he'd always said, (but encrypted?) - depends on how it's revealed). all the children are now convinced something's very wrong and their dad isn't just missing (? were they not before? was jj only here to find money for his company to stop the bleeding?). they put all of the pieces they know on the table - the box, the clandestine meetings, the off shore accounts, the tension with the partner, williams' odd behavior - which now seems different than before - he no longer seems like a victim. amy calls Beau to tell her she won't be coming home again tonight. he says he's at the yard again anyway.
1. back at the house, patrick's trying to open the box. jj is looking over the documents to see what other clues he can find. amy's looking at the new lab notebook. amy finds an entry about the day's results and the eureka moment as well as her father's consternation that he may have just created pandora's box - he's terrified of what would happen if someone opened it. it's the last entry and is clearly written in a hurry - the last words are smudged as the book was closed before the ink had time to dry.
1. jj notices a suspicious consulting fee a week before john sr.'s disappearance. it was for to beau's firm and was authorized by williams.
1. john sr. is being held at beau's worksite. beau was hired by williams to kidnap john sr. and get him to reveal where he'd hidden the formula. williams is interrogating him. amy confronts williams. they scuffle and she's about to pin him down when beau comes in. williams is hurt and scuttles away while beau confronts amy and they fight. he's about to kill her when patrick and jj show up. beau is knocked over the head and falls into a cement pit (it's still wet / being mixed - if he's not pulled out, he'll drown / be part of the foundation). john sr. is freed and given some food and water.
1. patrick and john chase after williams who runs right into the parking lot as multiple cars with sirens and flashing lights show up. williams stops. out of the car steps their mother and a dozen field agents from the cia.
1. family reunited, box is opened by dad, password was mom's name. notebook with formula and vial (which was inside the box) are secured by the CIA. they'd been monitoring the situation since Patrick first reached out to Williams several days ago. that was the hint that work had continued and something had gone wrong.
