## characters

**John Sr.** - missing
formerly a chemist at Acme labs, a front company for the CIA. his research focused on nanotechnologies and the possibility to use them to reverse the decay of human cells, even after death. after several years, however, the the project hit a political battle (maybe within Acme or perhaps with the CIA from whence the funds for the project came) and lost its funding. shortly afterwards, his wife died suddenly in a car accident that left her body unrecognizable (she was identified by dental records). He was reassigned to a menial position in a lab working on project of no consequence and his life seemed like it was going no where. he toiled in obscurity for years. eventually, dr. williams, with whom he'd worked at Acme, recruited him to leave Acme to join a new lab (their own) where they could restart the scrapped research - with a twist: in the intervening years nanotechnologies had advanced considerably and the new project would build on that to be able to repair decaying cells - something that was more of a concern now that John Sr. had been diagnosed with cancer. His work was yielding results and it appeared he was nearing a breakthrough shortly before his disappearance. He was getting nervous though because Williams had begun to talk about other applications for the technology, where instead of _repairing_ cells, the nanotechnologies would attack them - making it a targeted agent capable of specifically identifying an individual's dna (i.e. a weapon that could be spread via aerosol but only affect a single person) .

**John** - eldest
forensic accountant. He's the "serious" brother. very business like. he was the golden child and the only one John Sr. spoke of with friends, but after the mother died, even their relationship frayed and John Jr. would ultimately go as far away as he could for college (UCLA) and after a blowout fight one thanksgiving (which is also when he and Patrick stopped talking), never return home. More recently, he's going through a lot of personal problems at home that he's keeping to himself (his wife is leaving him and taking their daughter). His firm, the one he started, is also struggling and he's losing the Kleiner account (his largest and most lucrative client). his life is falling apart, though he hasn't acknowledged that yet, and he's trying to keep everything together - at least from the outside, so far there are few cracks to be seen. he is living on the other side of the country (e.g., LA). John's biggest hope is that he finds a solution to his family woes, namely by finding the money he assumes his father has been stocking away.

**Patrick** - Middle
more of an artist - currently working in marketing for a large agency, his primary client is a large multi-national food company (e.g., General Mills). He had big dreams when he moved to new york, but he's struggled with drugs and alcohol over the years, though he's been sober for the last few. he's been working on a screen play for years, but doesn't seem capable of finishing it. his story is a trail of half-finished projects. of all the siblings, Patrick has the most active imagination, willing to see intrigue behind every corner. patrick's biggest hope is to understand what happened to their dad, because he's convinced that there has to be a story.

**Amy** - youngest
the glue for the family. even though john sr. never gave her the time of day, she was the one who always kept tabs on her brothers and an eye on their dad after mom passed away. even when she moved away for school, ultimately attending WashU St. Louis for Medical school and training in infectious disease. After training, she had the option to go anywhere, but wanted to come home to be near dad who she was getting more and more concerned about. though he didn't welcome her back with open arms, she was near enough to keep tabs on him. meanwhile, she reconnected with her high school boyfriend, Beau, who'd also moved back after school to take over his family's construction business (he doesn't talk much about the business, it's likely not legitimate, and he's refused her offers to introduce him to John Jr. for accounting help.) after her father's disappearance, she was the one who called her brothers when the police declined to investigate suggesting that no crime had been committed. her biggest hope is that her brothers will reconcile (the disintegration of the family post-mom meant the brothers haven't talked directly in years) so that they can be a family again.

**Dr. Williams**

**Beau**

**Mr. Porter**
